\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename xprintidle-ng.info
@include version.texi
@settitle xprintidle-ng @value{VERSION}

@defcodeindex op
@syncodeindex op cp

@copying
This manual is for xprintidle-ng (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which prints the current X11 idle time.

Copyright @copyright{} 2015 Remy Goldschmidt.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Basics
@direntry
* xprintidle-ng:                (xprintidle-ng). Print the current idle time.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title xprintidle-ng
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Remy Goldschmidt (@email{taktoa@@gmail.com})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top xprintidle-ng

This manual is for xprintidle-ng (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which prints the current X11 idle time.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::                    General purpose and information.
* Sample output::               Sample output from @command{xprintidle-ng}.
* Invoking xprintidle-ng::      How to run @command{xprintidle-ng}.
* GNU FDL::                     Copying and sharing this documentation.
* Concept index::               Index of concepts.
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

The @command{xprintidle-ng} program (@url{@value{PROJECT_URL}, website})
queries the X11 server for its current idle time, and prints this time
in milliseconds by default. The time can be formatted through a format
string similar to the @command{date} command.

@cindex authors
@cindex Henoch, Magnus
@cindex Kukawka, Danny
@cindex Hvidevold, Eivind Magnus
@cindex Goldschmidt, Remy
xprintidle-ng was written by Magnus Henoch, Danny Kukawka,
Eivind Magnus Hvidevold, and Remy Goldschmidt.


@node Sample output
@chapter Sample output

@cindex sample output
@cindex examples

Here are some examples of running xprintidle-ng.
All examples are shown after 5.056 seconds idle
at a Unix time of 1010001000.

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle-ng}:

@example
5056
@end example

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle-ng --format '%tms'}:

@example
5056
@end example

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle-ng --format '%tsci'}:

@example
5
@end example

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle-ng --format '%tscf'}:

@example
5.056
@end example

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle-ng --format '%rms'}:

@example
056
@end example

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle-ng --format '%rsc'}:

@example
05
@end example

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle-ng --format '%rhr:%rmn:%rsc.%rms'}:

@example
00:00:05.056
@end example

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle-ng --format '%stms'}:

@example
1010000994944
@end example

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle-ng --format '%stsc'}:

@example
1010000994
@end example

@node Invoking xprintidle-ng
@chapter Invoking @command{xprintidle-ng}

@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The format for running the @command{xprintidle-ng} program is:

@example
xprintidle-ng @var{option} @dots{}
@end example

With no options, @command{xprintidle-ng} prints the number of
milliseconds that the X server has been idle

@command{xprintidle-ng} supports the following options:

@table @option
@item --format=@var{fmt}
@itemx -f @var{fmt}
@opindex --format
@opindex -f
Use the time format string @var{fmt} instead of @code{"%m"}

The specification for format strings is as follows:

@table @samp
@item @code{"%tms"}
Outputs the total idle time in milliseconds. This is the default.

@item @code{"%tsci"}
Outputs the total idle time in seconds, rounded down.

@item @code{"%tscf"}
Same as @code{"%tsci"}, except it outputs a floating-point number.

@item @code{"%tmni"}
Outputs the total idle time in minutes, rounded down.

@item @code{"%tmnf"}
Same as @code{"%tmni"}, except it outputs a floating-point number.

@item @code{"%thri"}
Outputs the total idle time in hours, rounded down.

@item @code{"%thrf"}
Same as @code{"%thri"}, except it outputs a floating-point number.

@item @code{"%tdyi"}
Outputs the total idle time in days, rounded down.

@item @code{"%tdyf"}
Same as @code{"%tdyi"}, except it outputs a floating-point number.

@item @code{"%stms"}
Outputs the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch when the
X server was last active.

@item @code{"stsc"}
Outputs the number of seconds since the Unix epoch when the X server
was last active.

@item @code{"rms"}
Outputs the remainder of milliseconds in the current elapsed idle
time, zero-padded to a width of three characters.

@item @code{"rsc"}
Outputs the remainder of seconds in the current elapsed idle time,
zero-padded to a width of two characters.

@item @code{"rmn"}
Outputs the remainder of minutes in the current elapsed idle time,
zero-padded to a width of two characters.

@item @code{"rhr"}
Outputs the remainder of hours in the current elapsed idle time,
zero-padded to a width of two characters.
@end table


@item --help
@itemx -h
@opindex --help
@opindex -h
Print an informative help message on standard output and exit
successfully.

@item --version
@itemx -v
@opindex --version
@opindex -v
Print the version number and licensing information of xprintidle-ng on
standard output and then exit successfully.

@end table


@node GNU FDL
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi


@node Concept index
@unnumbered Concept index

@printindex cp

@bye
