\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename xprintidle.info
@include version.texi
@settitle xprintidle @value{VERSION}

@defcodeindex op
@syncodeindex op cp

@copying
This manual is for xprintidle (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which prints the current X11 idle time.

Copyright @copyright{} 2015 Remy Goldschmidt.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Basics
@direntry
* xprintidle: (xprintidle). Print the current idle time.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title xprintidle
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Remy Goldschmidt (@email{taktoa@@gmail.com})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top xprintidle

This manual is for xprintidle (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which prints the current X11 idle time.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::                       General purpose and information.
* Sample output::                  Sample output from @command{xprintidle}.
* Invoking xprintidle::                How to run @command{xprintidle}.
* GNU Free Documentation License:: Copying and sharing this documentation.
* Concept index::                  Index of concepts.
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

The @command{xprintidle} program (@url{PROJECT_URL, website})
queries the X11 server for its current idle time, and prints this time
in milliseconds by default. The time can be formatted through a format
string similar to the @command{date} command.

@cindex authors
@cindex Henoch, Magnus
@cindex Kukawka, Danny
@cindex Hvidevold, Eivind Magnus
@cindex Goldschmidt, Remy
xprintidle was written by Magnus Henoch, Danny Kukawka,
Eivind Magnus Hvidevold, and Remy Goldschmidt.


@node Sample output
@chapter Sample output

@cindex sample output
@cindex examples

Here are some examples of running xprintidle.
All examples are shown after 5.256 seconds idle.

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle}:

@example
5256
@end example

This is the output of @samp{xprintidle --format '%s'}:

@example
5.256
@end example


@node Invoking xprintidle
@chapter Invoking @command{xprintidle}

@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The format for running the @command{xprintidle} program is:

@example
hello @var{option} @dots{}
@end example

With no options, @command{xprintidle} prints the number of
milliseconds that the X server has been idle

@command{xprintidle} supports the following options:

@table @option
@item --format=@var{fmt}
@itemx -f @var{fmt}
@opindex --format
@opindex -f
Use the time format string @var{fmt} instead of @code{"%m"}

@item --help
@itemx -h
@opindex --help
@opindex -h
Print an informative help message on standard output and exit
successfully.

@item --version
@itemx -v
@opindex --version
@opindex -v
Print the version number and licensing information of xprintidle on
standard output and then exit successfully.

@end table


@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi


@node Concept index
@unnumbered Concept index

@printindex cp

@bye
